Just a few days into my iOS challenge, I started to look a little differently at the Apple users in my life. They describe Apple products with marketing slogans like "it just works" as though they actually believe them, and it made me wonder: does Apple have one version of their products for the True Believers and then a different one for the scrubs like me? Because my time with the iPhone 16 Plus has been absolutely riddled with unintuitive design choices, unnecessarily limited functionality, and some of the weirdest bugs that I've encountered on a supposedly finished product in years. But Mama Sebastian didn’t raise no quitters, so I’ve stuck it out for more than the month that I promised, and I’ve compiled a lot of thoughts both from myself and from helpful members of our community who see the world through more pink lady lenses. Some of their points were extremely valid. Turns out I really was just holding it wrong, and over time, there’s a lot about iOS that I’ve learned to love, even on my own. But kick this off with some positive vibes. I am a big fan of the App Library. I know it isn't new, but as someone who hasn't daily driven an iOS device in a while, it's new to me. Any effort to organize the pure chaos that most of us carry around in our pockets is much appreciated. Like finally, the ability to put your icons anywhere you want. I also appreciate the intuitive and slick way that iOS handles switching between picture-in-picture and background media playback. I mean, how cool is this? As for my other primary use of my phone—you know, phone calls—that got a big improvement too. I get so many different kinds of calls these days: phone, Teams, WhatsApp, whatever, and iOS streamlines this experience by unifying the interface between all these different apps, which is especially nice when I’m in the car. It even consolidates my call logs, so I don’t have to remember who prefers what when I mash a contact to call them back. Multi-widget stacks are super cool. I don’t actually know if they’re new or not, but I don’t really care. Quick access and high information density always get a thumbs up from me, and I use them all the time to quickly check the weather, quickly check my calendar. Now, I’ve heard that these are a thing on newer Samsung devices as well, but look, this video is not a comprehensive comparison matrix of every software feature that’s ever existed. It’s my thoughts on coming back to iOS after an extended absence, and some of those changes really are refreshing. Screenshot management has leveled up in a big way and is full of nice-to-haves. I love the ability to quickly delete rather than archive my screenshot after I’ve shared it with someone. I also love the little popup in the Dynamic Island to help manage my AirPods if they’re paired to my laptop already and I’m sitting working, but an incoming phone call comes in. It’ll be like, "Hey, want me to grab those?" And I’m like, "Yeah, thanks actually." Any sort of interaction between the iPhone and other Apple devices is pretty great, like my Apple Watch unlocking without needing to mash in the pin if I have my phone unlocked nearby. So efficient. Speaking of efficiency, I probably plugged this thing into my nightstand to charge maybe four or five times over the entire month that I was using it, which probably sounds bonkers, but what I found was that just plugging in during my daily commute, plus the occasional longer trip, was enough to keep me going for literally a week at a time unless I was binging a show all day or something. iOS then noticed this and piped up with a suggestion that I switch to 80% maximum charging in order to prolong the life of my battery. That is the kind of proactive user handholding that I can really get behind. The same goes for how aggressive iOS gets about prompting the user to mute or block app notifications and tracking. To be clear, Android’s tools for managing these things are pretty good too, actually very granular, but what Android doesn’t do is get all up in your grill about them like iOS does, which results in an experience where, if you get a notification on your iPhone, you can be pretty darn sure that it’s something you wanted to see or you can easily get rid of it. Now pretty much everything so far has been mostly to do with the software, but I’ve got to say I kind of like the hardware too. The screen on the iPhone 16 family is incredible, with outstanding brightness for watching videos outside, not to mention their super dim mode that supposedly gets all the way down to one nit and makes nighttime reading way more comfortable for me. Oh, here’s a fun one: you know how phones are supposed to be, you know, phones? I’m getting way better call and data reception near my house, and not just against my ancient Note 9, but even against my wife’s Galaxy S23 Ultra, so I can finally close my garage door from the driveway. Alright, you guys think that’s enough positivity to appease the Apple stands? If not, I could probably keep going for an entire video's worth. But unfortunately, I could probably go multiple videos about the things that I didn’t love so much, so we should probably address at least some of them. Let’s start with how slow the device feels, which okay, no wait, hold on. Step away from the comment section. I recognize this is absolutely not a slow device, but that makes it all the more frustrating when it feels like Apple’s interface decisions are holding me back. Like the animations—they’re beautiful. I love the way the home screen icons come flying in the first time that it loads after you set up a new iPhone, but I don’t need to see it every time I unlock my phone, guys, guys. I’ve got urgent Facebook Marketplace Doom scrolling to do, and yes, before you ask, I did turn on reduce motion, and I even tried prefer crossfade (another gorgeous animation, by the way), but none of that had the desired effect of getting the fluff out of my way so I can just use my phone. I’m just picking what I get to look at while I wait for the UI to catch up with me. While we’re at it, by the way, why is this setting and so many other useful ones hidden away in accessibility options? I can’t change that unnecessary slowdowns are going to bother me, like this thing that Apple does where it animates all the steps to get to a setting that I’ve searched for or clicked a shortcut to. The rationale that I’ve heard for this behavior is that it’s trying to teach me where I should have gone, but I got there with a shortcut. Is that not an okay way to do it? Who cares if I know all the breadcrumbs? Adding insult to injury, depending on how I try to go back, I get to click through all of those screens that it zipped through on the way back to the thing I actually cared about, which brings me to a pretty big subject: going back on iOS is objectively bad. And okay, alright, something can’t be objectively bad, but what it can be is objectively inconsistent, which from a user interface and user experience standpoint is, well, objectively bad. I can’t believe that Apple still hasn’t mandated an official Apple way to go back. They seem to be big fans of the swipe in from the left, but they only use it just enough to trick you into thinking that it should work all the time, and then bam, an app hits you with clicking on the top left like my old iPhone 4 or canceling in the top right like this, and even the occasional swipe in another direction. Now, app makers absolutely share some of the blame for this, but guys, we are 17 years into this experiment, so I think it might be time for Apple to just take the darn R.S. or maybe in other cases loosen them. Overall, I found CarPlay to be pretty okay. My car doesn’t have a physical button for previous track, so if I wanted to have media controls and my map on screen at the same time, I had to use split screen, which I don’t prefer. I like a nice big map, but that’s probably more of a me problem, and you can’t blame the handset makers for all the dumb things that the car manufacturers are going to do. So let’s not worry about that. Let’s worry about the bugginess that I experienced. Every once in a while, the volume would shank itself, and I ran into this issue twice. It’s probably worth noting I saw this with some random Bluetooth earbuds too, though, so maybe it’s not CarPlay related. Actually, now that I think about it, there were more problems with audio notification volume. It would occasionally go super loud. There’s all the cabling, which is apparently an iOS 18 bug, and compared to Android, adjusting the volume level of anything you aren’t actively using is super nonobvious. Like, Andy, how do I change the volume of my system tap sounds when I’m listening to media, for example? You just mute it. No, but like, how do I change the volume of that? I don’t know. If you’ve never touched Android, this is going to blow your freaking mind: no matter what I’m doing, if I touch the volume button, I can adjust my ringtone, my notifications, my media, and my system sounds. The fact that that doesn’t exist, iOS users should be rioting in the streets. I know this next one is going to get lost in translation as Android and iPhone users are coming from completely different experiences here, but oh my goodness, the app store. The app store on iOS is still the worst. The worst, worst, worst. And I don’t mean that it’s a ripoff. What I mean is that Apple does not let developers share a frickin' changelog in the app update description, and this is a gigantic problem for me. You can’t even get a history of the app version updates without clicking through a bunch of unnecessary links or diving into the reviews section. And if you happen to need to find a previous version of an app for whatever reason, forget about it! You can’t do that either. Again, not a problem on Android, and that’s enough of that. For now, let me go ahead and give you my final verdict.